# Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF)
## Introduction
<b>Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF)</b> is a JavaScript framework built to simplify the development of Microsoft SharePoint applications. It can connect to various versions of SharePoint including SharePoint 2013, 2016 and SharePoint Online. So you will develop your application for one of these versions of SharePoint and it can work with other versions as well. Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF) is an abstraction layer for the SharePoint client side object model. It will use JavaScript REST API and CSOM programming models in order to simplify the development of Microsoft SharePoint applications for both developers and non-developers

 
## Who can use Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF)
Everyone with basic knowledge of HTML and SharePoint can use Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF) to develop rich SharePoint applications.  

## License
This project is maintained under open source MIT license and is supported by the Liquware.

## Why I developed Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF)
Microsoft introduced the API (Application programming interface) functionality to SharePoint from SharePoint 2007. Actually, it was possible to develop in SharePoint for prior versions as well, but SharePoint 2007 was the first release of the product from Microsoft that really had a complete programming interfaces. After that Microsoft introduces new programming model in every release of SharePoint. Microsoft is “so consistent to be inconsistent.” So for me as a SharePoint developer with more than 10 years experiences in developing SharePoint solutions, it is better to use JavaScript code to talk with SharePoint which is available in every release of the SharePoint and be in the safe side.  In every release, they introduce a new way of programming Microsoft SharePoint and developers should learn a new way of programming of Microsoft SharePoint(Farm solutions in SharePoint 2007, Sandbox solutions in SharePoint 2010, Add in (App) model in SharePoint 2013 and SharePoint Framework in SharePoint 2016). It is a very good idea to have a universal SharePoint Framework that connects to all versions of SharePoint and codes continue running while moving applications between on premise SharePoint and SharePoint online. For example, if your organization currently use SharePoint 2013 and has a plan to upgrade to SharePoint Online, during the migration you need to do no change to your SharePoint codes and your codes work in the new version of SharePoint instantly!<br>
Moreover, the true value of Microsoft SharePoint inside the organizations is that end users can use the product to develop applications for their need. They can easily create list, libraries, add columns and customize the SharePoint in a way that they can use it for their day to day activities. But there are major Shortcomings in this process and nearly every time it needs IT involvement to complete the solution, create workflow pages and customize SharePoint pages in a way business users can use it hassle-free. It is a very good idea to have a SharePoint framework, so the people in the organization with minimum web development skills (HTML, CSS) can create stunning SharePoint pages easily.<br>
In addition to above, in every SharePoint project development that I was involved, I ended up creating SharePoint base methods in order to connect to List, Libraries and pages. In every project I feel like I have to copy some methods and functions from prior projects and build on top of them. It is a very good idea to have a SharePoint Framework that provides base methods and the developer focus on the business processes rather than developing base methods.<br>
Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF) is developed to address these shortcomings. Both developers and non-developers can benefit from the Sepidar SharePoint Framework (SSF) to create enriched SharePoint solutions with minimal effort.
